<pre>
Maryland Legislators Achieved Major Triumphs to Protect the Environment but
Left Important Unfinished Business

Maryland League of Conservation Voter’s 2013 Environmental Scorecard Tells Story of the
Need for More Environmental Champions in the Legislature


Annapolis, MD – Maryland LCV’s 2013 Environmental Scorecard, released today, tells voters the story of
critical laws the Legislature passed to advance clean energy and transportation goals. However, it also exposes
how these generational triumphs happened even as legislators sidestepped many critical issues when several
environmental priorities were weakened or killed.

Maryland LCV also launched an interactive map using social media. At www.mdlcv.org citizens can use an
interactive map to compare their legislators’ scores to others across the state and click a button to share their
legislators’ scores or send them an email.

“This year’s environmental scorecard lets Marylanders know which legislators took action to protect future
generations from the ravages of climate change, the health impacts of pesticides, and pollution from industrial
agriculture,” said Maryland LCV Board Chair, Tony Caligiuri. “Maryland LCV’s scorecard lets citizens know
which Senators and Delegates vote for what is politically convenient and who are the real environmental
champions.”

“Marylanders should thank our visionary legislators who voted for Offshore Wind Energy Bill and the
Transportation Funding bill to move our state’s economy into the future,” said Maryland LCV’s Executive
Director Karla Raettig. “Similarly, if they are concerned about the historic impacts of extreme weather, they
should hold legislators accountable who didn’t vote to take several other opportunities to curb climate
change. Why should just one bold clean energy bill pass in a session? We shouldn’t have an environmental
quota.”

The 2013 Environmental Scorecard scores both committee and floor votes on issues ranging from public health
protections to clean energy to “fracking” to land and wildlife conservation.

Major Triumphs:
Offshore Wind Energy
Transportation Funding
Missed Opportunities and Unfinished Business:

Pesticides Reporting
Recycle for Real (Bottle Deposit)
Community Cleanup (Plastic Bags)
Fracking Moratorium
Black Liquor (Renewable Portfolio Standard)

Following a summer when Maryland experienced extreme weather fueled by climate change, including power
outages from a derecho, severe drought, and the devastating impacts of Hurricane Sandy, the legislature
passed an offshore wind power bill that will create thousands of jobs and significantly reduce pollution.

Legislators also passed a transportation funding bill that resulted from a combined leadership effort of
Governor O’Malley, Senate President Mike Miller, and House Speaker Michael Busch. The bill will improve our
air and provide better public transit. This legislation was critical as Maryland traffic congestion continues to
rank among the worst in the nation, while funds for fixing roads and expanding transit are overcommitted.

However, advocates lament that lawmakers did not pass several other important pieces of legislation this
year. As a result, the 2013 scores were lower overall because legislation that was politically more difficult --
such as a fracking moratorium, bag fee bill, and bottle deposit bill -- did not make it out of committee. The
average House of Delegates score in 2013 was 64 percent, and the average Senate score was 55 percent. Only
38 legislators earned 100%, which was among the smallest number in the four-year electoral cycle to date.

Citizens can find the online interactive map on Twitter at the @MDLCV and using hash tags #MDLCVScore,
#MDLCV100, and #MDLCV0.
</pre>